coreos-demo/README.md, before:

# Load Balancing Applications with NGINX Plus in a CoreOS Cluster

## Prerequisites

The following software must be installed on your machine:

1. [git](https://git-scm.com/).
1. [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/).

You must also have an NGINX Plus license. If you don’t have one, you can sign up for a [free 30-day trial](https://www.nginx.com/#free-trial).

**Note**: The demo creates 4 virtual machines with 1GB of RAM each.

## Setup

1. Clone the repo:
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/nginxinc/NGINX-Demos.git
  ```

1. Go to the ```coreos``` folder:
  ```
  $ cd NGINX-Demos/coreos
  ```

1. Create the ```user-data``` file by copying the ```user-data.sample``` file:
  ```
  $ cp user-data.sample user-data
  ```

1. Copy the ```nginx-repo.crt``` and ```nginx-repo.key``` files of your NGINX Plus license to the ```nginxplus-coreos``` folder.

1. Create and start virtual machines:
  ```
  $ vagrant up
  ```
  A cluster with 4 machines will be created. This step might take a while. As you might notice from the output, we make the NGINX Plus Docker image available on each machine by building the image on each machine.

1. Let's ssh into the first machine:
  ```
  $ vagrant ssh core-01
  ```

1. Let's make sure that each machine is up and running:
  ```
  $ fleetctl list-machines
  MACHINE		IP		METADATA
  8fc15e4c...	172.17.8.101	-
  c99a2e16...	172.17.8.104	-
  f7462d7a...	172.17.8.102	-
  f7672f06...	172.17.8.103	-
  ```

## Demo

You can find more details about the demo in the [blog post]().

Unit files are located in the ```/home/core/unit-files``` folder.

1. We've already sshed into the first machine. Let's go to the ```unit-files``` folder:
  ```
  $ cd unit-files
  ```

1. Let's start 3 backend units with 3 corresponding service discovery units:
  ```
  $ fleetctl start backend@1 && fleetctl start backend-discovery@1
  $ fleetctl start backend@2 && fleetctl start backend-discovery@2
  $ fleetctl start backend@3 && fleetctl start backend-discovery@3
  ```

1. Let's start 1 load balancer unit with 1 corresponding service discovery unit:
  ```
  $ fleetctl start loadbalancer@1 && fleetctl start loadbalancer-discovery@1
  Unit loadbalancer@1.service inactive
  Unit loadbalancer@1.service launched on f7672f06.../172.17.8.103
  Unit loadbalancer-discovery@1.service inactive
  Unit loadbalancer-discovery@1.service launched on f7672f06.../172.17.8.103
  ```

  As you can see from the output, the units were launched on the machine with the IP address of ```172.17.8.103```.

1. Let's make a request to the load balancer:
  ```
  $ curl 172.17.8.103
  <!DOCTYPE html>
  <html>
  <head>
  <title>Hello from NGINX!</title>
  <style>
      body {
          width: 35em;
          margin: 0 auto;
          font-family: Tahoma, Verdana, Arial, sans-serif;
      }
  </style>
  </head>
  <body>
  <h1>Hello!</h1>
  <h2>My hostname is 167be74cb44a</h2>
  <h2>My address is 10.1.99.2:80</h2>
  </body>
  </html>
  ```
We got the response from one of the backends.

1. Check the NGINX Plus Status page, which is in our case available at http://172.17.8.103:8081/status.html.

1. Using the Status API, we can list all the servers of our backend:
  ```
  $ curl -s 172.17.8.103:8081/status |  jq '.upstreams.backend.peers[] | {server: .server, state: .state}'
  {
    "server": "172.17.8.101:8080",
    "state": "up"
  }
  {
    "server": "172.17.8.104:8080",
    "state": "up"
  }
  {
    "server": "172.17.8.102:8080",
    "state": "up"
  }
  ```


## Links

1. For more information about the demo see the [blog post]().
1. For details on how to create a CoreOS cluster with Vargant, see [CoreOS documentation](https://coreos.com/blog/coreos-clustering-with-vagrant/).

Commit message:

Updated the README file and a unit file for CoreOS demo

coreos-demo/README.md, after:

# Load Balancing Applications with NGINX Plus in a CoreOS Cluster

**Note**: To run the demo, you don't have to use Vagrant. Copy the template unit files to each machine of 
your CoreOS cluster,
and also make the NGINX Plus Docker image available on each machine.

See the [blog post]() for more details.

## Prerequisites

The following software must be installed on your machine:

1. [git](https://git-scm.com/).
1. [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/).

You must also have an NGINX Plus license. If you don’t have one, you can sign up for a [free 30-day trial](https://www.nginx.com/#free-trial).

**Note**: The demo creates 4 virtual machines with 1GB of RAM each.

## Setup

1. Clone the repo:
  ```
  $ git clone https://github.com/nginxinc/NGINX-Demos.git
  ```

1. Go to the ```coreos``` folder:
  ```
  $ cd NGINX-Demos/coreos
  ```

1. Create the ```user-data``` file by copying the ```user-data.sample``` file:
  ```
  $ cp user-data.sample user-data
  ```

1. Copy the ```nginx-repo.crt``` and ```nginx-repo.key``` files of your NGINX Plus license to the ```nginxplus-coreos``` folder.

1. Create and start virtual machines:
  ```
  $ vagrant up
  ```
  A cluster with 4 machines will be created. This step might take a while. As you might notice from the output, we make the NGINX Plus Docker image available on each machine by building the image on each machine.

1. Let's ssh into the first machine:
  ```
  $ vagrant ssh core-01
  ```

1. Let's make sure that each machine is up and running:
  ```
  $ fleetctl list-machines
  MACHINE		IP		METADATA
  8fc15e4c...	172.17.8.101	-
  c99a2e16...	172.17.8.104	-
  f7462d7a...	172.17.8.102	-
  f7672f06...	172.17.8.103	-
  ```

## Demo

Full demo instructions are available in the [blog post]().

Unit files are located in the ```/home/core/unit-files``` folder.

1. We've already sshed into the first machine. Let's go to the ```unit-files``` folder:
  ```
  $ cd unit-files
  ```

1. Let's start 3 backend units with 3 corresponding service discovery units:
  ```
  $ fleetctl start backend@1 && fleetctl start backend-discovery@1
  $ fleetctl start backend@2 && fleetctl start backend-discovery@2
  $ fleetctl start backend@3 && fleetctl start backend-discovery@3
  ```

1. Let's start 1 load balancer unit with 1 corresponding service discovery unit:
  ```
  $ fleetctl start loadbalancer@1 && fleetctl start loadbalancer-discovery@1
  Unit loadbalancer@1.service inactive
  Unit loadbalancer@1.service launched on f7672f06.../172.17.8.103
  Unit loadbalancer-discovery@1.service inactive
  Unit loadbalancer-discovery@1.service launched on f7672f06.../172.17.8.103
  ```

  As you can see from the output, the units were launched on the machine with the IP address of ```172.17.8.103```.

1. Let's make a request to the load balancer:
  ```
  $ curl 172.17.8.103
  <!DOCTYPE html>
  <html>
  <head>
  <title>Hello from NGINX!</title>
  <style>
      body {
          width: 35em;
          margin: 0 auto;
          font-family: Tahoma, Verdana, Arial, sans-serif;
      }
  </style>
  </head>
  <body>
  <h1>Hello!</h1>
  <h2>My hostname is 167be74cb44a</h2>
  <h2>My address is 10.1.99.2:80</h2>
  </body>
  </html>
  ```
We got the response from one of the backends.

1. Check the NGINX Plus Status page, which is in our case available at http://172.17.8.103:8081/status.html.

1. Using the Status API, we can list all the servers of our backend:
  ```
  $ curl -s 172.17.8.103:8081/status |  jq '.upstreams.backend.peers[] | {server: .server, state: .state}'
  {
    "server": "172.17.8.101:8080",
    "state": "up"
  }
  {
    "server": "172.17.8.104:8080",
    "state": "up"
  }
  {
    "server": "172.17.8.102:8080",
    "state": "up"
  }
  ```


## Links

1. For more information about the demo see the [blog post]().
1. For details on how to create a CoreOS cluster with Vargant, see [CoreOS documentation](https://coreos.com/blog/coreos-clustering-with-vagrant/).
