consul-demo/README.md, before:

# Demo to show Nginx Plus Dynamic Reconfiguration API (upstream_conf) with Consul

This demo shows NGINX Plus being used in conjuction with Consul, a service discovery platform. This demo is based on docker and spins'
up the following containers:

* [Consul](http://www.consul.io) for service discovery
* [Registrator](https://github.com/gliderlabs/registrator) to register services with Consol.  Registrator monitors for containers being started and stopped and updates Consul when a container changes state.
* [tutum/hello-world](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/tutum/hello-world/) is a simple hello world container to simulate a service
* [google/golang-hello](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/google/golang-hello/) a second simple hello world container to simulate another service
* and of course [NGINX Plus](http://www.nginx.com/products)

The demo is based off the work done in this blog post (to be written :P)
 
## Setup Options:

### Fully automated Vagrant/Ansible setup:

Install Vagrant using the necessary package for your OS:

http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads

1. Install provider for vagrant to use to start VM's.  

     The default provider is VirtualBox [Note that only VirtualBox versions 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 are supported], which can be downloaded from the following link:

     https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads

     A full list of providers can be found at the following page, if you do not want to use VirtualBox:

     https://docs.vagrantup.com/v2/providers/

1. Install Ansible:

     http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_installation.html

1. Clone demo repo

     ```$ git clone git@github.com:nginxinc/NGINX-Demos.git```

1. Copy ```nginx-repo.key``` and ```nginx-repo.crt``` files for your account to ```~/NGINX-Demos/ansible/files/``` [Remove the files that are in there now]

1. Move into the consul-demo directory and start the Vagrant vm:

     ```
     $ cd ~/NGINX-Demos/consul-demo
     $ vagrant up
     ```

1. Login in the newly created virtual machine:

     ```
     $ vagrant ssh
     ```

1. NGINX Plus will be listening on IP address 10.2.2.70 (assigned in Vagrantfile) and port 80. Export this IP into an environment variable HOST_IP on the VM `export HOST_IP=10.2.2.70` (used by script.sh below) and now follow the steps under section 'Running the demo'.

The demo files will be in ```/vagrant``` on the Guest VM

### Ansible only deployment

1. Create Ubuntu 14.04 VM

1. Install Ansible on Ubuntu VM

     ```
     $ sudo apt-get install ansible
     ```

1. Clone demo repo into ```/srv``` on Ubuntu VM:

     ```
     $ cd /srv
     $ sudo git clone git@github.com:nginxinc/NGINX-Demos.git
     ```

1. Copy ```nginx-repo.key``` and ```nginx-repo.crt``` files for your account to ```/srv/NGINX-Demos/ansible/files/```

1. Move into the consul-demo directory which contains the demo files and run the ansible playbook against localhost on Ubuntu VM:

     ```
     $ cd /srv/NGINX-Demos/consul-demo
     $ sudo ansible-playbook -i "localhost," -c local /srv/NGINX-Demos/ansible/setup_consul_demo.yml
     ```

1. NGINX Plus will listening on one of the IP addresses on port 80. Export this IP into an environment variable HOST_IP on the VM `export HOST_IP=a.b.c.d` (used by script.sh below) and now follow the steps under section 'Running the demo'.


### Manual Install

This section assumes that you are installing the demo on MAC OSX
#### Prerequisites and Required Software

The following software needs to be installed on your laptop:

* [Docker Toolbox](https://www.docker.com/docker-toolbox)
* [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install). I used [brew](http://brew.sh) to install it: `brew install docker-compose`
* [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/), I used [brew](http://brew.sh) to install it: `brew install jq`

#### Setting up the demo
1. Clone demo repo

     ```$ git clone git@github.com:nginxinc/NGINX-Demos.git```

1. Copy ```nginx-repo.key``` and ```nginx-repo.crt``` files for your account to ```~/NGINX-Demos/consul-demo/nginxplus/```

1. Move into the demo directory:

     ```
     $ cd ~/NGINX-Demos/consul-demo
     ```

1. If you have run this demo previously or have any docker containers running, start with a clean slate by running
     ```
     $ ./clean-containers.sh
     ```

1. To spin up the containers run: 

     ```
     $ docker-compose build
     $ docker-compose up -d
     ```

1. `docker-compose build` only needs to be run once to build the environment.  From here you should have a bunch of containers up and running:

     ```
     $ docker-compose ps
         Name                   Command                   State                    Ports
     -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     consul                   /bin/start -server       Up                       53/tcp,
                              -bootst ...                                       0.0.0.0:8600->53/udp,
                                                                                0.0.0.0:8300->8300/tcp
                                                                                , 8301/tcp, 8301/udp,
                                                                                8302/tcp, 8302/udp, 0.
                                                                                0.0.0:8400->8400/tcp,
                                                                                0.0.0.0:8500->8500/tcp
     nginx                    nginx -g daemon off;     Up                       443/tcp,
                                                                                0.0.0.0:80->80/tcp,
                                                                                0.0.0.0:8080->8080/tcp
     registrator              /bin/registrator         Up
                              consul:// ...
     service1                 /bin/sh -c php-fpm -d    Up                       0.0.0.0:8081->80/tcp
                              vari ...  
     service2                 /bin/go-run              Up                       0.0.0.0:8082->8080/tcp
     ```

1. NGINX Plus will be listening on port 80, and you can get the IP address by running 
     ```
     $ docker-machine ip default
     192.168.99.100
     ```
     Export this IP into an environment variable HOST_IP `export HOST_IP=192.168.99.100` (used by script.sh below) and now follow the steps under section 'Running the demo'.


## Running the demo

* Go to `http://<HOST_IP>` and the main index.html with 'Welcome to nginx!' should pop up. `http://<HOST_IP>:8080/` will bring up the NGINX Plus dashboard. If you would like to see all the services registered with consul go to `http://<HOST_IP>:8500`. Going to `http://<HOST_IP>/service` will take you to one of the two hello world containers.

* Execute script.sh. This script runs infinitely and gets the list of all Nginx Plus upstreams using its status and upstream_conf APIs, loops through all the containers registered with consul which are tagged with SERVICE_TAG "production" using this [Consul API](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/http/catalog.html#catalog_services) and adds them to the upstream group using upstream_conf API if not present already. It also removes the upstreams from Nginx upstream group which are not registered in Consul. It repeats this process every 2 seconds.

     ```
     $ ./script.sh
     ```

* Now in a different tab, spin up two more containers named service3 and service4 which are the same [tutum/hello-world](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/tutum/hello-world/) and [google/golang-hello](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/google/golang-hello/) as above. Go to the Upstreams tab on Nginx Plus dashboard and observe the two new servers being added to the backend group.
     ```
     $ docker-compose -f add-services.yml up -d
     ```

* Now try stopping two services and observe that they get removed from the upstream group on Nginx Plus dashboard automatically
     ```
     $ docker stop service2 service4
     ```

* Play with starting and stopping multiple containers. Starting a new container with SERVICE_TAG "production" will add that container to the Nginx upstream group automatically. Stopping a container will make the health checks to fail and removes that container from the upstream group.

All the changes should be automatically reflected in the NGINX config and show up on the NGINX Plus Dashboard.

Commit message:

Minor changes to README and a warning in setup_consul_demo.yml

consul-demo/README.md, after:

# Demo to show Nginx Plus Dynamic Reconfiguration API (upstream_conf) with Consul

This demo shows NGINX Plus being used in conjuction with Consul, a service discovery platform. This demo is based on docker and spins'
up the following containers:

* [Consul](http://www.consul.io) for service discovery
* [Registrator](https://github.com/gliderlabs/registrator) to register services with Consol.  Registrator monitors for containers being started and stopped and updates Consul when a container changes state.
* [tutum/hello-world](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/tutum/hello-world/) is a simple hello world container to simulate a service
* [google/golang-hello](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/google/golang-hello/) a second simple hello world container to simulate another service
* and of course [NGINX Plus](http://www.nginx.com/products)

The demo is based off the work done in this blog post (to be written :P)
 
## Setup Options:

### Fully automated Vagrant/Ansible setup:

Install Vagrant using the necessary package for your OS:

http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads

1. Install provider for vagrant to use to start VM's.  

     The default provider is VirtualBox [Note that only VirtualBox versions 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 are supported], which can be downloaded from the following link:

     https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads

     A full list of providers can be found at the following page, if you do not want to use VirtualBox:

     https://docs.vagrantup.com/v2/providers/

1. Install Ansible:

     http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_installation.html

1. Clone demo repo

     ```$ git clone git@github.com:nginxinc/NGINX-Demos.git```

1. Copy ```nginx-repo.key``` and ```nginx-repo.crt``` files for your account to ```~/NGINX-Demos/ansible/files/``` [Remove the files that are in there now]

1. Move into the consul-demo directory and start the Vagrant vm:

     ```
     $ cd ~/NGINX-Demos/consul-demo
     $ vagrant up
     ```
     The ```vagrant up``` command will start the virtualbox VM and provision it using the ansible playbook file ~/NGINX-Demos/ansible/setup_consul_demo.yml

1. SSH into the newly created virtual machine and move into the /vagrant directory which contains the demo files:

     ```
     $ vagrant ssh
     $ cd /vagrant
     ```

1. NGINX Plus will be listening on IP address 10.2.2.70 (assigned in Vagrantfile) and port 80. Export this IP into an environment variable HOST_IP on the VM `export HOST_IP=10.2.2.70` (used by script.sh below) and now follow the steps under section 'Running the demo'.


### Ansible only deployment

1. Create Ubuntu 14.04 VM

1. Install Ansible on Ubuntu VM

     ```
     $ sudo apt-get install ansible
     ```

1. Clone demo repo into ```/srv``` on Ubuntu VM:

     ```
     $ cd /srv
     $ sudo git clone git@github.com:nginxinc/NGINX-Demos.git
     ```

1. Copy ```nginx-repo.key``` and ```nginx-repo.crt``` files for your account to ```/srv/NGINX-Demos/ansible/files/```

1. Move into the consul-demo directory which contains the demo files and run the ansible playbook against localhost on Ubuntu VM:

     ```
     $ cd /srv/NGINX-Demos/consul-demo
     $ sudo ansible-playbook -i "localhost," -c local /srv/NGINX-Demos/ansible/setup_consul_demo.yml
     ```

1. NGINX Plus will listening on one of the IP addresses on port 80. Export this IP into an environment variable HOST_IP on the VM `export HOST_IP=a.b.c.d` (used by script.sh below) and now follow the steps under section 'Running the demo'.


### Manual Install

This section assumes that you are installing the demo on MAC OSX
#### Prerequisites and Required Software

The following software needs to be installed on your laptop:

* [Docker Toolbox](https://www.docker.com/docker-toolbox)
* [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install). I used [brew](http://brew.sh) to install it: `brew install docker-compose`
* [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/), I used [brew](http://brew.sh) to install it: `brew install jq`

#### Setting up the demo
1. Clone demo repo

     ```$ git clone git@github.com:nginxinc/NGINX-Demos.git```

1. Copy ```nginx-repo.key``` and ```nginx-repo.crt``` files for your account to ```~/NGINX-Demos/consul-demo/nginxplus/```

1. Move into the demo directory:

     ```
     $ cd ~/NGINX-Demos/consul-demo
     ```

1. If you have run this demo previously or have any docker containers running, start with a clean slate by running
     ```
     $ ./clean-containers.sh
     ```

1. To spin up the containers run: 

     ```
     $ docker-compose build
     $ docker-compose up -d
     ```

1. `docker-compose build` only needs to be run once to build the environment.  From here you should have a bunch of containers up and running:

     ```
     $ docker-compose ps
         Name                   Command                   State                    Ports
     -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     consul                   /bin/start -server       Up                       53/tcp,
                              -bootst ...                                       0.0.0.0:8600->53/udp,
                                                                                0.0.0.0:8300->8300/tcp
                                                                                , 8301/tcp, 8301/udp,
                                                                                8302/tcp, 8302/udp, 0.
                                                                                0.0.0:8400->8400/tcp,
                                                                                0.0.0.0:8500->8500/tcp
     nginx                    nginx -g daemon off;     Up                       443/tcp,
                                                                                0.0.0.0:80->80/tcp,
                                                                                0.0.0.0:8080->8080/tcp
     registrator              /bin/registrator         Up
                              consul:// ...
     service1                 /bin/sh -c php-fpm -d    Up                       0.0.0.0:8081->80/tcp
                              vari ...  
     service2                 /bin/go-run              Up                       0.0.0.0:8082->8080/tcp
     ```

1. NGINX Plus will be listening on port 80, and you can get the IP address by running 
     ```
     $ docker-machine ip default
     192.168.99.100
     ```
     Export this IP into an environment variable HOST_IP `export HOST_IP=192.168.99.100` (used by script.sh below) and now follow the steps under section 'Running the demo'.


## Running the demo

* Go to `http://<HOST_IP>` in your favorite browser window and the main index.html with 'Welcome to nginx!' should pop up. `http://<HOST_IP>:8080/` will bring up the NGINX Plus dashboard. If you would like to see all the services registered with consul go to `http://<HOST_IP>:8500`. Going to `http://<HOST_IP>/service` will take you to one of the two hello world containers.

* Execute script.sh. This script runs infinitely and gets the list of all Nginx Plus upstreams using its status and upstream_conf APIs, loops through all the containers registered with consul which are tagged with SERVICE_TAG "production" using this [Consul API](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/http/catalog.html#catalog_services) and adds them to the upstream group using upstream_conf API if not present already. It also removes the upstreams from Nginx upstream group which are not registered in Consul. It repeats this process every 2 seconds.

     ```
     $ ./script.sh
     ```

* Now in a different tab, spin up two more containers named service3 and service4 which are the same [tutum/hello-world](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/tutum/hello-world/) and [google/golang-hello](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/google/golang-hello/) as above. Go to the Upstreams tab on Nginx Plus dashboard and observe the two new servers being added to the backend group.
     ```
     $ sudo docker-compose -f add-services.yml up -d
     ```

* Now try stopping two services and observe that they get removed from the upstream group on Nginx Plus dashboard automatically
     ```
     $ sudo docker stop service2 service4
     ```

* Play with starting and stopping multiple containers. Starting a new container with SERVICE_TAG "production" will add that container to the Nginx upstream group automatically. Stopping a container will make the health checks to fail and removes that container from the upstream group.

All the changes should be automatically reflected in the NGINX config and show up on the NGINX Plus Dashboard.
